--- Day 2: Rock Paper Scissors ---The Elves begin to set up camp on the beach. To decide whose tent gets to be closest t 
o the snack storage, a giant Rock Paper Scissors tournament is already in progress.
Rock Paper Scissors is a game betwee 
n two players. Each game contains many rounds; in each round, the players each simultaneously choose one of Rock, Paper, 
 or Scissors using a hand shape. Then, a winner for that round is selected: Rock defeats Scissors, Scissors defeats Pape 
r, and Paper defeats Rock. If both players choose the same shape, the round instead ends in a draw.
Appreciative of your 
 help yesterday, one Elf gives you an encrypted strategy guide (your puzzle input) that they say will be sure to help yo 
u win. "The first column is what your opponent is going to play: A for Rock, B for Paper, and C for Scissors. The second 
 column--" Suddenly, the Elf is called away to help with someone's tent.
The second column, you reason, must be what you 
 should play in response: X for Rock, Y for Paper, and Z for Scissors. Winning every time would be suspicious, so the re 
sponses must have been carefully chosen.
The winner of the whole tournament is the player with the highest score. Your t 
otal score is the sum of your scores for each round. The score for a single round is the score for the shape you selecte 
d (1 for Rock, 2 for Paper, and 3 for Scissors) plus the score for the outcome of the round (0 if you lost, 3 if the rou 
nd was a draw, and 6 if you won).
Since you can't be sure if the Elf is trying to help you or trick you, you should calc 
ulate the score you would get if you were to follow the strategy guide.
For example, suppose you were given the followin 
g strategy guide:
A Y
B X
C Z

This strategy guide predicts and recommends the following:

In the first round, your oppo 
nent will choose Rock (A), and you should choose Paper (Y). This ends in a win for you with a score of 8 (2 because you  
chose Paper + 6 because you won).
In the second round, your opponent will choose Paper (B), and you should choose Rock ( 
X). This ends in a loss for you with a score of 1 (1 + 0).
The third round is a draw with both players choosing Scissors 
, giving you a score of 3 + 3 = 6.

In this example, if you were to follow the strategy guide, you would get a total sco 
re of 15 (8 + 1 + 6).
What would your total score be if everything goes exactly according to your strategy guide?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
